In this tutorial, we'll work with animations. Let's see how to manage them in C ++.
Let's start by animating the Damage in the PlayerHUD widget. Let's rewrite the launch of animation in blueprints in C ++.
If you press f12 on the BindWidget meta information, you can see that
this is actually an enum and that this enum has an element called BindWidgetAnim.
If we specify this value in the property meta information, we can access the animation.
Copy the uproperty macro and replace BindWidget with BindWidgetAnim.
We need to specify the animation class. It's called UWidgetAnimation.
We call property DamageAnimation.
When we dealt damage, we triggered an event that we subscribed to in blueprints
and started the Damage animation. Now let's do it programmatically.
Let's call the same functions, but in C ++. Functions are methods of the UserWidget class.
First, we check if the animation is playing or. And if not, then we start this animation using the PlayAnimation function.
As we can see absolutely the same parameters as in blueprints, because this is the same function.
Leave all parameters by default. Also, if you go inside the function, you can
find that the check for a null pointer is already present.
We won't need the OnTakeDamage event anymore, but let's leave it in the code. We will not delete.
The editor started, but as we can see, at the bottom in the CompileResults window we have several problems. Let's deal with warning - this is
a message with a yellow exclamation mark. It says that we did not specify an access
specifier for the animation property, for example, BlueprintReadWrite, which allows us to refer to this
property on the blueprint graph. But we don't need these nodes, since we rewrote everything into code.
And the error message says that the animation property does not have the transient specifier.
When specifying the transient specifier, the property value will not be saved to disk and at the start of the game it will
always have the default value. Let's set this specifier in our code, and then see
an example of how this specifier works. Add a transient to the animation uproperty macro.
Launch the editor. So, the blueprint widget has finally compiled. Let's check
that the animation works in code. Take some damage and the red screen is flashing.
Let's test the transient specifier. To do this, let's create a test blueprint class. We inherit from the actor. We call it TestActor.
Open up blueprint and create some variable. Let's call it TestVar.
Click on the eye to the right of the variable. This will allow us to edit it in an instance of the class.
Let's change the type to float. Compile. Let's set any default value.
And on Tick we will output the value of this variable using PrintString.
We compile the blueprint, go to the level menu map and throw the blueprint onto the stage.
So our property is not Transient. We can change the value of the instance, for example, put 23.
And when the game starts, this value is displayed. Now let's see what happens if we
set the Transient specifier. The specifier can also be set in blueprints.
We click on the variable and in the details panel you can change some of the specifiers via blueprint.
For example, set the category, ClampMin, ClampMax and so on. We can also expose
the transient specifier. To do this, in the corresponding property, click on the checkbox. Compile blueprint.
In the instance, we changed the value of the variable to 23, but now at the start of the game the value
is 11, that is, now saving our property to disk is ignored.
Next, let's add a start animation to all the main widgets of our project.
To do this, we will create a base class for our widgets, which will have one single function - Show,
which will start the animation of showing the widget. Go to the UI directory.
We create a new class. We inherit from UserWidget.
We call the class STUBaseWidget.
Create a protected section in the base class of the widget.
Copy the property with animation from the PlayerHUDWidget class.
Let's rename the property to ShowAnimation.
We will also create a public function called Show.
It will also be possible to make it virtual in the future
and in child classes, if desired, to override, but for now we do not need it.
This function will start the animation. We call the PlayAnimation function and pass ShowAnimation into it.
Next, we need to change the base class of all main widgets
to STUBaseWidget. We do this in PlayerHUDWidget, PauseWidget, GameOverWidget
and also in MenuWidget. Next, let's include the header file with STUBaseWidget.
Copy include. Replace UserWidget in all files with STUBaseWidget.
Let's start with the main menu. Go to the .cpp file. We also include the STUBaseWidget header file here.
We pass STUBaseWidget as a template parameter to CreateWidget.
Now MenuWidget has a pointer type to STUBaseWidget
and therefore we can call the Show function. In the case of a menu, when we add it to the viewport, we
immediately call the display animation. Next, you need to modify STUGameHUD.
Let's go to the .cpp file first. Also insert the STUBaseWidget header file. And everywhere we change the CreateWidget template parameter.
Go to the .h file and also replace the type in the associative array.
And the pointer type is CurrentWidget.
We don't have a header file here, so we add a forward declaration STUBaseWidget.
And the last thing. You must call the Show function. We will do this when we
assign Visibility to the current widget in Visible. Thus, when the MatchState changes,
we will also have an initial animation called for each of the screens.
We compile the project.
We have a compilation error in all the main widgets because we need to add the ShowAnimation animation.
Let's start with MenuWidget. Add animation ShowAnimation.
Let's make a simple animation. Let's put an image on top.
Stretch it in width and height.
Let's change the color to black.
You also need to change the property visibility. You need to put it in NonHitTestable. This Visibility value
means that mouse events will not be triggered for this UI element and therefore the
picture will not block our buttons. We name the picture ShowImage.
Add to the timeline. We will animate ColorAndOpacity.
Let this animation play long enough - three seconds, for example. Set the final keyframe
and replace the alpha value with 0. This way our interface will emerge from the darkness.
You can also change the interpolation of keyframes (in another way "easing"). If you right
-click on the frame, you can change the KeyInterpolation value. Let's set CubicBreak to
the same value for the end frame. Also for reference: UE has special
curve editors and with them you can customize animation interpolation more flexibly.
Go to PlayerHUDWidget. We also add ShowAnimation.
Let's do the appearance of PlayerHUDWidget as follows: all elements of the user interface,
except for the sight, will move out from the edges. Let's start with the GameData widget.
Add a track for it. We will animate a property called transform.
Set the end frame at 0.75 seconds.
And change the starting position of X and Y. Find the translation category. We open it.
We put x in the minus so that the widget disappears behind the left border of the screen.
And in the same way, set Y. This is a diagonal animation.
We do the same with the health block. Only he will leave from another corner.
And the last block is the weapon block.
It will drive out from the bottom right.
The overall animation will eventually look like this. Click on the space bar. All elements will move out from the corners.
Next, add ShowAnimation to the GamePause widget.
And ShowAnimation in GameOver widget. Let's not waste time creating animation data.
Let's just go over the property elements that we will animate.
So, the GamePause widget animates the BlurStrength, that is, the blur of the screen from 0 to 4.
And the Y position of the center block is also animated.When we updated the design, I forgot to tell you
that I added an additional black image under blur with an alpha = 0.1. to shade the screen a bit,
I did the same in the GameOver widget. And the animation of the GameOver widget is exactly the same as the GamePause.
Let's check. The interface has arrived. We press pause - a pause has arrived.
And at the very end of the game.
GameOver is shown. And in the main menu, the animation works too. This concludes this lesson.